hey guys Sylvie Perez here and welcome
to today's video in this video I'm gonna
be talking about ad scheduling what it
is and how you go ahead and use it if
you've ever run into the problem where
you're receiving calls outside of your
business hours
maybe your business is only open from
8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. and you're
receiving calls at 3:00 in the morning
6:00 in the morning or late at night or
it just random times ad scheduling is
the solution for your problem so to get
started go ahead and hop into your
Google ads campaign overview tab and
click on the campaign you want to set
your ad schedule for and then once you
click on that campaign scroll down to
the bottom left click on ad schedule and
then this is where we're gonna be able
to create an ad schedule now all an ad
schedule is it's just exactly what it
sounds like a specific set of time a
designated set of time where you want
your ads to be shown so for example
going back to 8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. if
that's when your business is running and
that's when your operational and that's
when you have somebody available to pick
up these phone calls then you want to
make sure that you set up your ad
schedule so you set up your ads to run
from 8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. and this is
where we're gonna go ahead and do that
now just uh before you go ahead and set
your ad schedule something to mention
that I've noticed when auditing Google
ads accounts that people oftentimes
overlooked and they have it wrong is to
make sure your account time zone is set
correctly so to go ahead and do that
click on tools and then just go to
preferences and then this is where you
can check to make sure that your account
time zone is set correctly so under time
zone make sure this reflects the time
zone that you are in because if it's
wrong then your ad schedule is going to
be based on the wrong time zone so let's
go ahead and go back just click on that
campaign again and then go down to ad
schedule and now let's go ahead and
create an ad schedule so let's keep
running with that idea let's say we we
own our business only open Monday
through Friday 8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. so
to get started just click on that little
blue pencil we're gonna click on Monday
through Fridays and then we're gonna
change this from 8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
and something to note as well if in the
case that you're not seeing your time
shown up like this so this is using the
12 hour clock you can change that right
here from use a 12 hour clock so you use
a 24 hour clock so
if you want to switch between military
time or if you want to switch between a
standard 12 you know standard a 12-hour
clock that's where you would be able to
do that right there so I have that set
8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. I'm click Save and
there you go now my ads are only
scheduled to show from 8:30 a.m. to 5:00
p.m. Monday through Friday as simple as
that
alright now that we have our ad schedule
set in place I wanted to go ahead and
hop into a live account and show you how
you can go ahead and optimize your ad
schedule and be able to set bid
adjustments so that way you can bid more
aggressively or less aggressively
depending on the performance of certain
days or times so going back to the ad
schedule page right here we're gonna go
ahead and look and if you can see here
there's a column called bid adjustment
right here this is where you can go
ahead and set to bid more aggressively
or less aggressively based on the
performance of your times and days so
for example here Monday performs very
well with a 10% conversion rate and a
$14 cost per conversion for this account
so for that I added a 5% bid adjustment
now you can you can really see the
performance breakdown right here at the
ad scheduled level but you can also
break down even further and dig deeper
so if you click on day an hour up here
this is gonna do this show you the whole
breakdown between not just the day but
also the hour of when the performance is
best so if you see for example like
right here Monday 3:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m.
is a very good a very good day for this
account they have a $5 cost per lead at
this time with a 23 percent conversion
rate so what I can do from here if I
notice this is worth getting more
granular and setting a bit adjustment
just for this day and time I can go back
to ad schedule and then what I can do is
I can break it down even further my ed
schedule so instead of just putting
Monday through Fridays during the times
I want my ads to show I can go ahead and
get more granular and I can go ahead and
break this down by each and inch each
and every single day so for example I
can go ahead and go here and put Monday
and then to set it to 3 p.m. to 4 p.m. I
would put from 12 a.m. to let me just
make sure I'm using the right yep 12
hour clock so I'll put from 12 a.m.
to 3 p.m. for Monday and this is how you
would go about setting your your ad
schedule to beta just on that granular
time and then I'll put another one
Monday 3 p.m. to 4 p.m. because we want
to isolate that specific time during
this day so that way we can we can set a
bit adjustment for it so 12 a.m. to 3
p.m. and then 3 p.m. to 4 p.m. just
scroll down and this can take a while
depending on how much data you have and
how much performance you have but
getting this granular and setting those
bit adjustments at the actual day and
hour time can have huge benefits for you
not just bidding positively but also
negatively depending on the performance
of of your account so that's how we
would do it 12:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. and
then we'll isolate it from 3:00 p.m. to
4:00 and then again we want to make sure
we put 4 p.m. to 12 a.m. in the case for
this account because they show ads at
all times and then that way we covered
the entire day so we have from 12 a.m.
to 3 p.m. so we're covering the first
chunk of the day and then from 3 p.m. to
4 p.m. that's when we're gonna set that
bid adjustment for that specific time an
hour of that day and then from 4 p.m. to
12 a.m. to cover the rest of the day so
our ads are still showing and then from
here you would just keep going so you
would in the case of Tuesday let's say I
want to keep Tuesday the same and show
ads at all times I'll just leave like
that Tuesday and then I'll go Wednesday
Thursday and then so on and so forth for
the rest of the week and then at this
point when I click Save which I will do
for this because of the live account but
in the case of this account when I click
Save now my ads are still showing all
day and all times but I isolated that
one specific piece of time so now in my
ad schedule tab I can go ahead and see
the row right here that'll say Monday
from 3 p.m. to 4 p.m. and set a bit
adjustments specifically for that day
and time you can also look at it based
on just the day or just the hour but the
most granular you can get is day and
hour so that's it for this video guys I
hope you got some value from this so
please do make sure to set ad schedule
so you can make sure that you're only
showing ads during your business hours
and this is also super helpful too if
you have a smaller budget by
consolidating the amount of time your
ads are showing you can you can better
utilize your budget
you're not spreading it out over a
longer period of time so you can better
consolidate that spend and only use it
during those times where it matters most
for your business as well as by setting
those bid adjustments if you notice hey
maybe around 12 o'clock people aren't
converting because they're out to lunch
or something like that you can go ahead
and set a negative bid adjustment so
that you don't show your ads as often
during that time you don't bid as high
and then maybe during a specific time
maybe around 3 p.m. you notice people
are converting a lot higher then you can
set that positive bid adjustment so you
can tell Google and you can set your
bids to bid higher during that time so
you can get more traffic getting more
conversions and get more leads so that's
it for this video if you got some value
from this please do go ahead and make
sure to subscribe and fall onto the
channel I create new content every week
and until next time take care